---
title: Polar 1.18.0 Released
date: 2019-04-25 09:00:00 -0800
layout: post
image: https://getpolarized.io/assets/logo/icon.png
description: Polar 1.18.0 Released
---

# Polar 1.18.0 Released

This release mostly focused on improving stability
and implementing a few key UI features. This
upgrades us to Electron 5.x which as needed for
some users who were experiencing severe latency
using Polar on Linux. We also resolve a key issue
with non-atomic writes.

This includes a good chunk of the new sharing
functionality but it's not enabled yet.

<ul>

<li>Big upgrade to latest version of Electron. Electron v5.0.0, Chromium v73.0.3683.119, Node v12.0.0, v8 v7.3.492.27-electron.0. This should hopefully fix a major latency issue some users were seeing on Ubuntu/Linux.

</li><li>Major performance fix on large PDFs.  Scrolling should be dramatically improved.  There's still a small latency issue we're seeing but already performance is dramatically improved.

</li><li>Enabled atomic writes again for all platforms.

</li><li>Filtering for tags now lists the tags alphabetically

</li><li>Right click on text highlight now add 'scroll into view'

</li><li>Upgraded to latest version of Typescript 3.4.3

</li><li>Fixed regression where progress wasn't being updated when progress messages were being sent from the renderer process.

</li><li>Fixed bug which resorted in two file uploads to firebase while cloud sync was operational. For large files this was very painful and resorted in 2x data being uploaded.

</li><li>Fixed bug where the UI would break when both filtering and removing tags on a document that was visible.

</li>
<li>Increased the sidebar a bit to accommodate updating comments without overflow of the summernote bar.

</li>
<li>Using the same account widget on web + desktop now.</li>

</ul>
