---
title:  Polar 1.5 with Cloud Sync
date:   2018-12-16 07:22:47 -0800
layout: post
---

# Polar 1.5 with Cloud Sync

### Support for multi-device sync based on Google Firebase

I'm proud to announce that Polar 1.5 shipped this morning.  One of the most exciting features of this release is support
for cloud sync.  

Cloud sync allows you to keep all your documents, PDFs, web page captures, and annotations consistent across all 
your computers (MacOS, Windows, and Linux).

Cloud sync is also real time.  If your other computers are online while you're using Polar they are synchronized and
up to date immediately.

We've also recently released our new <a href="https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/save-to-polar/jkfdkjomocoaljglgddnmhcbolldcafd">Chrome Extension</a>
which allows you to capture web content directly from within Chrome and share it to Polar.

# Stability and Bug Fixes

One of he things that's been great about our initial MVP release is that the Polar community has really stepped up and 
contributed a ton of positive feedback on how to improve the platform.

We've implemented a ton of features and bug fixes in this release.  

Some of these include smaller but critical issues like key bindings but also have a critical bug fix annotations in PDF 
documents sometimes requiring reload.

# What's Next

- For all you Firefox fans we do have plans to port it over to Firefox.  Luckily it's should already work on Firefox
thanks to the WebExtensions API.

- Support for real-time document sharing with other Polar uses.  

- Improved support for capturing your full browser history.  

- Improving our Anki-sync support with other metadata fields and cloze deletions.
