# Overview

We use a github flow style of managing our pull requests.

Getting your PR merged is JUST as important as coding it and can/should be
rejected by another engineer for code quality.

Usually these are small things that aren't obvious until multiple people review the code.

In order to make it easier for your reviewer to get your code integrated:

## Keep your PR small.  

The smaller it is the better.  If it compiles, and works, and has some basic functionality, 
even if it's just a few functions, send a PR for JUST that code.  Don't wait for it to get larger.

If it takes your reviewer a LONG time to review your branch it's possible he
won't be able to find the time needed for the review.

## Keep each PR focused on one thing

If you want to clean up a bunch of imports, do that in one branch.  If you're
going to implement a new sorting algorithm, do that in another branch. DO NOT
combine those and send them in one larger branch.  This makes it super hard for
a reviewer to understand what's happening in your code.

## Separate automated code and manual code.

Automated code is VERY easy to review because we can just review the template.

If you mix in manual code now you've forced your reviewer to scour through potentially thousands of lines 
of autogenerated code.

## Only upgrade one library at a time.

If you need to upgrade a library, only do ONE at a time in each commit. Don't use one large commit upgrading 
50 libraries all at once.

The reason is that if there's a bug we can't later git bisect them to find the root cause.
