---
title: Polar 1.19.8 Released - Better Payments and Fixes 
date: 2019-06-02 09:00:00 -0800
layout: post
image: https://getpolarized.io/assets/logo/icon.png
description: Polar 1.19 Released.  We've revamped our payments system for Polar Premium and the biggest change is that we're now accepting payments via Stripe.
---

# Polar 1.19.8 Released - Better Payments and Fixes

<p>
    We've revamped our payments system for Polar Premium and
    the biggest change is that we're now accepting payments
    via Stripe.
</p>

<p>
    We've manually migrated accounts from Open Collective and
    your payments will still process there while you have a
    regular premium account.  If you have any issues please
    feel free to contact <b>support@getpolarized.io</b>.
</p>

<p>
    We're going to be working to bring on a few more premium
    features in the next couple weeks.  These include:


</p>

<ul>
    <li>Watch directories that can automatically import documents into Polar.</li>
    <li>Markdown support</li>
    <li>Dark mode</li>
</ul>

<p>
    We're not 100% certain of the timeline on these features
    as some of them are a bit difficult to implement.
</p>

<p>
    We're also working on a few major changes that are taking
    a bit longer - mostly because they're very technically
    complicated.  These aren't available yet but are 50-80%
    complete.
</p>

<p>
    This includes:
</p>

<ul>
    <li>Folder view that extends our tagging system with a full hierarchy.</li>
    <li>Tabbed browsing for the desktop / Electron version of Polar</li>
    <li>ePub support</li>
</ul>

<p>
    If you'd like to see these features sooner rather than
    later the best way you can help (besides a pull request)
    is to upgrade to <a href="https://getpolarized.io/pricing.html">
    Polar Premium</a>.
</p>

<b>Changes in 1.19.8 Include:</b>

<ul>
    <li>New payment system for Polar premium based on Stripe.</li>
    <li>Fixed bug when dragging area highlights.</li>
    <li>Fixed regression in the webapp where PHZ files couldn't be loaded.</li>
</ul>
